people say seo is dead but we all know
that isn't the case because it drives so
much revenue the real question is is it
too saturated hey everyone i'm neil
patel and today i'm going to break down
if it's too late to start doing seo in
before i get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
you're probably not going to like the
answer the answer is yes and no
it is too late and it is also not too
late to start seo and i'll break down
why i'm saying yes and no
so the first part why is it too late
well all the companies with billions of
dollars in budget are already doing seo
and they've been doing it for a long
time at least the majority of the large
corporations out there so it makes it
really competitive
and when you look at most niches they're
already dominated by really high
authority websites and you're seeing
that these bigger and bigger sites are
taking up massive amounts of ranking
even if their site doesn't focus on a
specific niche a great example of this
is wikipedia wikipedia ranks for most
niches and it doesn't matter if their
site focuses on that one topic because
wikipedia is about everything yet they
still do really well when it comes to
any niche hence they're dominating it
and paid advertising can turn a profit
faster seo takes a long time to generate
results
with paid advertising you have to end up
having a conversion funnel
a conversion funnel is a way a path that
you guide people to to get them to
convert a great example of conversion
funnels that works is click funnels it's
a software and they have examples of all
the funnels out there that work for
different industries so check it out
it'll at least give you ideas whether
you use a product or not so from that
aspect seo saturate it still works it's
saturated now it doesn't mean seo
doesn't work it just means you have to
be patient and give it more time it's
still one of the highest roi channels
out there and here's what i mean when i
say no that seo is still really well
worth it if you start from the low
competition keywords and scale up to
more competitive keywords over time but
smaller ones that are still profitable
you can do really well yes you may not
generate millions of dollars from seo in
year one or anything crazy like that but
it doesn't mean that you can't turn a
profit
the second thing is
topic clusters
really are the key strategy these days
when it comes to content marketing a
great example of this is if i'm talking
about seo i would break down everything
related to seo from link building to
on-page seo to google core web vitals
and page speed and even though page
speed isn't necessarily a keyword that
you would assume is related to seo it is
because it's a factor within seo that's
what i mean by topic clusters check out
the beginner's guide to seo by moz and
that's a great example of this where
even though the article is talking about
seo or more so the guide they have all
these chapters that go into other topics
that are still related to seo but they
just want to make sure they cover the
whole topic and not just the quote
unquote seo part
and if i were to do seo today i would
start off with the keyword ideas report
within ubersuggest so if you go to uber
says type in a keyword related to your
industry and once you type in a keyword
to your industry you'll see this report
it'll show you a traffic for that
keyword having people search for it on
mobile or desktop devices and in the
left hand navigation you'll see this
option called keyword ideas click on
that
and when you click on that you'll see
this report of all these keywords from
ones from google suggest for related
keywords or question related keywords
that you could potentially rank for that
could be good i remember how i said
earlier that seo is saturated and it's
more competitive well if you're logged
into uber suggest if not just sign in
there's this option that says keywords i
can rank for that's on this exact report
if you click that and you put in your
domain it'll filter all the keyword
ideas on that report and show you which
ones are most relevant for you that are
good fit that you can rank for now i
want you to filter them based on the
intent what's relevant for your product
or service that you're selling by doing
that you're then focusing your seo
efforts on ones that are easy to break
for based on how new or old your site is
based on how many backlinks you already
have uber says will figure all that out
for you and do the equation and come up
with the right keywords that you should
break for but you need to make sure you
pick the ones that have the best
opportunities
if you have any questions leave a
comment below if you enjoy the video
like it share it tell people about it if
you need help with your seo strategy you
can also check out my ad agency and be
digital thank you for watching